Israel has renewed its warning for
people in the northern half of Gaza to
leave as it continues intense air
strikes across the territory troops
amassed on the border with Gaza ahead of
an expected ground incursion the Israeli
Defense Force say that they have struck
over a 100 military targets overnight
and killed a senior Commander militants
have continued to fire Rockets into
Israel towards Tel Aviv and other areas
in the South the World Health
Organization has condemned Israel's
evacuation order it says forcing
Hospital patients to relocate would be a
death sentence President Biden has
spoken with the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and urged him to
provide safety for Civ civilians amid
the bombardment Diplomatic efforts to
prevent the violence from spreading have
been stepped up Mr Biden's Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin is visiting Cairo
he's expected to press Egyptian
officials to restart talks on getting
Aid into Gaza through the border
crossing the US is sending a second
aircraft carrier to the Eastern Med
Mediterranean near Israel the USS
Eisenhower will lead a group of ships
aimed at deterring further attacks
against Israel in particular from Iran
or the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah
well let's cross now to our Middle East
correspondent yoland Nell um and yolan
just talk us through uh the latest that
you're hearing we've been hearing about
the the intensified clashes on Israel's
northern border with Lebanon and and
obviously we're hearing about Israel
extending this time period that it's
given uh gazans to leave the north of
Gaza just talk us through the
developments as they've been coming in
over the last few
hours well earlier the Israeli military
said that it was giving another 3-hour
window for residents of the northern
half of the Gaza Strip to make their way
South along a routes uh which it
declared uh to be safe and we have seen
in the past couple of days now hundreds
of thousands of people making that
Journey some of them on foot with their
belongings just in carrier bags or in
rock sack s some people with um carts
with donkeys other people with cars
using up what little fuel they have left
because of course Gaza remains under
this tight Siege by Israel with no food
no water no electricity and no fuel uh
being allowed in now there is growing
concern about the humanitarian situation
uh particularly in the south of the
strip where you have all of these people
uh really in makeshift shelters in un
schools places like that um they're
extremely crowded and with no Aid
getting in uh there's really very
limited means for the the very limited
number of emergency workers in the Gaza
Strip to be able to help them another
complication here is that the lack of
Internet and the lack of um people with
working phones so communication uh
becomes more and more difficult um we
know that the World Health Organization
has been raising awareness of these 20
hospitals in the northern half of the
Gaza Strip where it said that the
evacuation order given by Israel was
really a tantamount to a death sentence
there are very sick and injured people
there and at the moment there are there
are still babies in incubators uh things
like that and they're asking how are
these people supposed to be moved um
this is all complicating of course
Israel's plans uh for for a ground
offensive it wants uh as many people to
leave the north of the Gaza Strip
particularly Gaza City which we expect
to be a real focus it wants that area
cleared as much as possible before it
goes in saying it's going to tackle both
isra both the Hamas a military and
governing capabilities and what has uh
Israel been saying too there's clearly
mounting pressure on it to to to provide
safe passage for civilians we've had
President Biden talking about an
obligation to provide safety for
civilians and as you say the World
Health Organization really strongly
condemning these calls for hospitals
patients to have to move what is Israel
saying in its
defense well Israel is saying that it is
hamas's responsibility as the government
in Gaza to help people move Hamas has
been telling people not to leave their
homes um and when I asked the Israeli
military spokesman about this um he told
me that really Hamas had got cars Hamas
had got vehicles that it could move
people and that really it should should
uh get involved here um at the same time
of course yes there is Big pressure on
Israel from surrounding countries um
Jordan has called for humanitarian
corridors there's a lot of Aid which has
already arrived in the Sinai in Egypt
that's Aid that could easily be taken
into the Gaza Strip if Egypt was to open
the the Rafa Crossing now Egypt has said
it's not going to do that to allow
hundreds of people who have foreign
nationalities who are stuck in Gaza it's
not going to allow them out until it
gets some guarantees that Aid can also
safely be taken into the Gaza Strip so
that's the situation at the moment and
we know that the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin on his trip which really
defines shuttle diplomacy he's been
going from country to Country around the
region that's one of the the big efforts
that he's involved in is trying to get
the Raffa Crossing open also you
mentioned earlier about Hezbollah in the
north There's real concern there in the
North of Israel about what could happen
with new um firing by both sides um and
really a lot of concern that this
conflict could spread more widely in the
region that's something that Anthony
blinkin has been talking to different
Regional actors about as well trying to
get them to put some pressure on on the
different players um where they have uh
where they have some influence um and in
the last few hours at least one Israeli
has been killed and a couple of
civilians also have being injured we
understand by anti-tank missiles but at
the moment Hezbollah is not using its
longer range missiles if it gets
involved that is going to really change
this because it is a very powerful force
with a huge arsenal of longer range
weapons okay thank you very much youan
now for us there in Jerusalem can hear
now from our correspondent Nick Beak he
spoke to us earlier from ashalon in
southern Israel yes this is ashalon
which is about seven miles from Gaza
where this morning we've heard quite a
lot of activity in the air actually
there's been the distinctive Buzz of
Israeli uh drones but also the the
fighter pilots are going overhead and uh
what they've been doing is they've been
flying over us and then a few seconds
later we've heard large booms bearing in
mind we are seven miles away these have
echoed around this part of Southern
Israel so that's the situation on the
ground here we've just heard from the is
isi um officials that there will be a
window a 3-hour window today in which
people in Gaza can move from the north
to the South that is along one specific
route yesterday there were two routes
that would were opened up for a for a
bigger window these timings have very
much slipped but that's what the
Israelis are saying today all the while
of course the United Nations saying that
this is you know completely unacceptable
the World Health Organization for
example saying that trying to move
people people from the north to the
South and they is you know just not
feasible and they say specifically when
you look at 2,000 people they say who
are in intensive care and also in
maternity units they moving from the
north to the South that is tantamount to
a a death sentence so extremely
extremely strong language from them all
the while Israel saying that it's
carrying out a proportionate response to
the attacks by Hamas just over a week
ago and that this is all part of an act
of self-defense on their part be there
in ashalon while a missile fired into
Israel from Lebanon has killed at least
one person it hit a settlement near the
border between the two countries the
militant group Hezbollah said it was
behind the attack our correspondent Huga
Bacha gave us this update from tier near
the border with sou near the border in
southern
Lebanon so the Israeli Emergency
Services have confirmed that one person
was killed a Manning his 40s three
civilians were injured uh in this
community the community of Shula in
Northern Israel near the uh Lebanese
border and uh this is the first civilian
death on Israel's northern border since
the beginning of this war between Israel
and Hamas now hasbalah said he had
targeted uh this uh Community with
guided missiles and they said this was
in retaliation uh after the the killings
of three civilians here in Lebanon they
said that these civilians were killed as
a result of Israeli attacks uh the
Israeli Army hasn't confirmed that they
were involved in these attacks and I
think this shows how volatile the
situation is along the uh Lebanese
Israeli border I mean fears that Lebanon
could be dragged into this conflict
Hezbollah obviously a very powerful
group with tens of thousands of rockets
and missiles uh tens of thousands of of
Fighters uh as well and we've seen that
in the last few days Hezbollah and
Israel have uh exchanged rockets and
shelling so tensions are really high
here in this region and I spoke to a
source close to Hezbollah who said that
the group is on high alert but that
hezbollah's next steps will be
determined by what happens in Gaza and
if Israel goes ahead with this ground
offensive in Gaza against Hamas so again
a very tense situation uh and with a
number of incidents happening along this
order here I made fears again that this
could become another front in this war
here Goa for us there in southern
Lebanon